# Replication files for Chile and Croatia
# "O Brother, Where Start Thou? Sibling Spillovers on College and Major Choice in Four Countries"
# (QJE Version)

- This repository contains the files required to replicate the main results of **"O Brother, Where Start Thou? Sibling Spillovers on College and Major Choice in Four Countries"** (December, 2020).
- The first version of the paper was published on December, 2018 and different versions of the paper circulated under different names (see for instance http://arks.princeton.edu/ark:/88435/dsp01h128nh58q).
- The current version corresponds to a revised version of the previous ones. The latest version of the paper can always be found at  https://andresbarriosf.github.io

## CODE
All the do-files in this repository can be executed from the "master_file.do". We organized the individual do-files in two groups. The name of the file indicates the table or figure it replicates. The postfix indicates the country for which the code was written:
1.  **"_chi"**: these do-files contain the code used to estimate sibling spillovers in Chile.
2.  **"_cro"**: these do-files contain the code used to estimate sibling spillovers in Croatia.

## DATASETS
The main data used for the analyses in Chile and Croatia are proprietary and cannot be freely posted online or shared with third parties.

**Chile**

1.  **Ministry of Education**: most datasets used in this project, including high school enrollment, higher education enrollment and higher education completion can be downloaded from the Ministry of Education website: http://datosabiertos.mineduc.cl/. These datasets include the students' age and gender, their academic performance during high school, the exact degree and institution in which they enroll in higher education, and the degree and institution from which they graduate. These datasets also contain information about the high schools (administrative dependence, location), higher education institutions (type, accreditation) and degrees (level, duration, fees, accreditation).

2. **DEMRE**: the datasets containing the individual test scores in the university admission exam (PSU), as well as the ones containing information on individuals socioeconomic characteristics, applications to university, and enrollment in the universities that participate of the centralized admission system are in charge of the DEMRE. In order to get access to their data it is necessary to fill an application form describing the research project for which the data will be used at https://demre.cl/portales/portal-bases-datos.  In order to be able to merge this data with the registers of the MINEDUC, the researcher needs to explicitly mention that s/he plans to do that. If the application is approved the data will be prepared and delivery by the Ministry of Education to ensure that the individual identifier matches the one in their registers. In this project, we got authorization to use parents' identifiers. These variables are not part of the standard variables they provide. We got access to them after contacting the DEMRE director by email and setting a meeting in the DEMRE headquarters in Santiago, Chile. Apart from the research proposal described above, we presented the project to the DEMRE research team and had to sign additional data protection agreements. None of the DEMRE datasets can be shared with third parties, but it is available for any researcher after the review of his/her research proposal.

3. **Other datasets**: in order to characterize the labor market performance of the graduates of different degrees and institutions we rely on data generated by the Ministry of Education. This data is publicly available at https://www.mifuturo.cl.

**Croatia**

1.  **Ministry of Education**: data contains high school grades and demographic data of all students. The access to it is possible through the "Law of right for information access". For every public and state entity there is a prescribed procedure. The right of access to information and the re-use of information are exercised pursuant to the Act on the Right of Access to Information (Zakon o pravu na pristup informacijama). First stage is a formal request which describes the research goals and variables used/needed from the public entity. Second stage is the review of the request by a formal board. They decide whether sharing individual level data outweighs the cost of information sharing. Besides the detailed structure of the dataset the researcher has to describe why the public benefit of this particular research is greater than the cost of information sharing. Detailed procedure is written here: https://mzo.gov.hr/access-to-information/412

2. ASHE: The datasets contain final test results, applications, and enrolment  for every individual who participated on the centralized admission system in Croatia. Detailed procedure to access the data in the followinng link: https://www.azvo.hr/en/o-nama/pristup-informacijama

3. NCVVO: The state exam data for every individual is owned by the NCVVO and that data needed a separate authorisation.  Detailed procedure  to access de data in the following link:  https://www.ncvvo.hr/o-nama/pristup-informacijama/

## REPLICATION
The main analyses combine many of these files. Since many important variables, including the ones identifying siblings, depend on propietary data, we cannot make the final datasets used for the estimations public or share it with third parties. However, you can contact us in case you need guidance with data applications or if you have any doubt about how to process the data:

- Chile: Andres Barrios-Fernandez (andres.bafer@alumni.lse.ac.uk).
- Croatia: Marin Drlje (marin.drlje@cerge-ei.cz).
- Sweden: Adam Altjmed (adam@altmejd.se).
- US: Christine Mulhern (mulhern@g.harvard.edu).

### The code used to perform the analyses can be downloaded from https://andresbarriosf.github.io

(C) All right reserved to the authors of "O Brother, Where Start Thou? Sibling Spillovers on College and Major Choice in Four Countries".
